#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass tufte-handout
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
NUCL 563 Homework 1 - Summary of Angrist Chapter 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Alex Hagen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
January 19th, 2017
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Angrist starts his introduction with opinion about the future of our energy
 policy.
 Although dated, he opines that we need better energy education and consensus
 on the goals of our energy policy.
 He then describes our current energy reality (or 1980's energy reality),
 with specific realities that he cautions against.
 He then segues into discussion of our two current methods of power generation:
 the use of fossil fuel steam cycles, and the use of potential energy of
 water and conversion from that potential energy into kinetic energy and
 finally into electrical energy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
From there, a discussion of direct energy conversion's history follows.
 He leads us through Davy's coal oxidation research, to Seebeck, Peltier,
 Lenz, and Lord Kelvins research into the Seebeck and Peltier effects.
 He also describes work on plasmas by Crookes and Langmuir.
 He also discusses thermionic and thermoelectric effects and the pioneers
 thereof by Becquerel, Bell, and Edison.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Then, Angrist discusses our current large sources of energy and the scale
 of their usage.
 He dutifully describes the difference between 
\emph on
energy capital
\emph default
 and 
\emph on
energy income
\emph default
, an important distinction, especially when coupled with the fact that 
\begin_inset Formula $94\%$
\end_inset

 of the 1980 world's energy needs were met with energy capital.
 He highlights the main sources:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Fossil
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

fuels Angrist particularly points out our increasing dependence on OPEC
 based imports of these sources, and the political implications of that
 fact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Nuclear
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

fuels Angrist's book, written before Three Mile Island incident, and even
 its latest edition written before Chernobyl, is very optimistic of the
 use of fission power.
 The nuclear climate has been tempered significantly since his description.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Hydropower The first of the power types that uses energy income is hydroelectric
 power, which he describes as 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

[having] no major research and development problems to be solved
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Solar
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

energy The second of the power types to use energy income, Angrist's description
 highlights some problems with solar power: for example that only 
\begin_inset Formula $0.1\,\mathrm{\nicefrac{W}{cm^{2}}}$
\end_inset

 of power from the sun falls on the earth.
 He does not describe the sustainability concerns related to solar cells,
 but does list that photochemistry is a frontier area.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Other
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

primary
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

sources Angrist uses this type of power as a catch all, including technologies
 such as heat pumps and tidal power.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Labeling
\labelwidthstring 00.00.0000
Controlled
\begin_inset space ~
\end_inset

fusion Finally, Angrist describes the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

last great hope
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 for energy as fusion.
 He even assumes that Fusion will take 
\begin_inset Formula $50\,\mathrm{years}$
\end_inset

 or more to develop into Utility Integration phase, back in 1980.
 He does describe the reason for the interest in fusion, though, as the
 energy availability is up to 
\begin_inset Formula $20\times10^{9}\,\mathrm{years}$
\end_inset

 of the earth's energy needs just from the deuterium in the ocean.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, Angrist makes a case for the use of direct energy conversion.
 He goes through the increasing energy needs, highlighting the fact that
 we will not be able to meet our energy needs for 2000 at our current price
 per kilowatt hour.
 He then describes the benefits of direct energy conversion for terrestrial
 and space applications.
 One of his more esoteric arguments is that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

when a process can occur directly rather than by passing through several
 intermediate steps, it seems reasonable to assume that it may take place
 more efficiently.
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Angrist1982"

\end_inset

 His other arguments are more well posed.
 Particularly, he points out the localization of energy needs makes small,
 modular type generation more elegant as a solution.
 He also comes back to the overarching concepts: that direct energy conversion
 usually generates energy from energy income to the earth, a more sustainable
 solution, or that it converts waste heat or products from other energy
 sources, thus augmenting the existing energy economy.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
setbox0=
\backslash
vbox{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "../../bibs/nucl_563"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
