#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass tufte-handout
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
NUCL 563 Semester Project Proposal
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Alex Hagen
\end_layout

\begin_layout Date
January 17th, 2017
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sensors of all sorts have become omnipresent in our current culture, from
 smart thermostats to heart rate fitness monitors.
 With this omnipresence comes the need for more flexible, less invasive,
 and wireless operations of sensors.
 One main barrier to the flexibility and wireless operations of sensors
 is the need for power delivery.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A group of researchers has generated a miniature cell conductivity sensor
 using a piezoelectric grain for ultrasonic wireless power delivery
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "Seo2013"

\end_inset

.
 These sensors in particular use the power delivered through the piezoelectric
 grain to both measure conductivity and to operate a CMOS component that
 will operate as a full-bridge rectifier.
 Communication is then done via 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

backscatter
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, or passive, radiofrequency communication.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The concept of piezoelectric power delivery is interesting and novel, and
 for the application proposed by Seo, more efficient than alternatives.
 I propose a further investigation into the application space of this type
 of power delivery.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In order to properly investiage the application space, first the parameters
 required for efficient and worthwhile application must be explored.
 This involves comparing piezoelectric delivery to its competitors in terms
 of:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
distance to receiver
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
size of receiver
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
efficiency of delivery
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
power needed by receiver
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
intervening material
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
delivery frequency
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Then, depending on the results of the investigated application space, particular
 applications should be identified.
 Of interest to me are the application of piezoelectric power delivery in
 vibration sensing, flow visualization, or temperature recording applications.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Once an application is identified as of being of high interest, a proof
 of concept experiment will be attempted.
 In failing the proof of concept, a finite element model of the delivery
 and receiver system will be generated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
setbox0=
\backslash
vbox{
\end_layout

\end_inset


\begin_inset CommandInset bibtex
LatexCommand bibtex
bibfiles "../../bibs/nucl_563"
options "plain"

\end_inset


\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
